.. meta::
   :description lang=en: Accessibility Statement
   :keywords: UG-ANTS, accessibility
   :property=og:locale: en_GB


=======================
Accessibility statement
=======================

This accessibility statement applies to content published on the `UG-ANTS Documentation`_
domain.

This website is run by the Model Inputs and Outputs team at the `Met Office`_. We want
as many people as possible to be able to use this website. For example, that means you
should be able to:

- zoom in up to 240% without problems
- change the colours of the site
- navigate most of the website using a keyboard
- use most of the website using a screen reader with browsers that support one
- we've also made the website text as simple as possible to understand

`AbilityNet`_ has advice on making your device easier to use if you have a disability.

How accessible this website is
------------------------------

We know some parts of this website are not fully accessible:

- some links do not clearly explain where they lead, or that they lead to external
  sites.
- there are some external links to websites that may not be accessible.

Feedback and contact information
--------------------------------

If you need information on this website in a different format like large print, easy
read, audio recording or braille please email miao@metoffice.gov.uk and we will look into it.

We aim to respond to all reasonable requests for accessible information.

Reporting accessibility problems with this website
--------------------------------------------------

We are always looking to improve the accessibility of this website. If you find any
problems not listed on this page or think we are not meeting accessibility requirements,
please email miao@metoffice.gov.uk.

Enforcement procedure
---------------------

The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) is responsible for enforcing the Public
Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No. 2) Accessibility Regulations 2018
(the 'accessibility regulations'). If you are not happy with how we respond to your
complaint, contact the `Equality Advisory and Support Service`_ (EASS).

Technical information about this website's accessibility
--------------------------------------------------------

The Met Office is committed to making this website accessible, in
accordance with the Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No. 2)
Accessibility Regulations 2018.

Compliance status
-----------------

This website is partially compliant with the `Web Content Accessibility Guidelines`_
version 2.2 AA standard, due to the non-compliances listed below.

Non-accessible content
----------------------

The content listed below is non-accessible for the following reasons.

Non-compliance with the accessibility regulations
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

- Some links do not clearly explain where they lead, or that they lead to external
  sites. This fails `WCAG 2.1 success criteria 2.4.4 Link Purpose`_ (In Context).

Content that is not within the scope of the accessibility regulations
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

- The Public Sector Bodies (Websites and Mobile Applications) (No. 2) Accessibility
  Regulations `2018 legislation`_ does not require us to fix external, third-party
  websites that are neither funded nor developed by, nor under the control of the Met
  Office.
- The use of layout tables are due to the use of the `sphinx.ext.autosummary`_, and
  `sphinx.ext.autodoc`_ extensions. The API documentation these extensions generate can
  produce titles that fail `WCAG 2.2 1.4.3 Contrast`_ (Minimum) (Level AA) checks using
  certain themes such as dark mode. These are third-party, open source code bases, and
  so are beyond the scope of this project to fix, although we will apply updates as
  this codebase develops.
- The pages generated by Sphinx contain some duplicate and empty form labels in the
  header. Most are visually hidden but there are some such as the GitHub etc. icons by
  the search field which are visible. This fails `WCAG 2.4.6 Headings and Labels`_ and
  `WCAG 3.3.2 Labels or Instructions`_. This is a third-party, open source code base,
  and so is beyond the scope of this project to fix, although we will apply updates as
  this codebase develops.

How we tested this website
--------------------------

This was tested manually by developers for flow and navigation. The accessibility
evaluation tool `WAVE`_ was also used to evaluate this website's accessibility.

What we are doing to improve accessibility
------------------------------------------

We always consider accessibility when writing documentation and aim to re-write
inaccessible, complex text as we continue development. This website is audited for
accessibility at each release to highlight potential accessibility issues.

Preparation of this accessibility statement
-------------------------------------------
This statement was prepared on 15 December 2025. It was last reviewed on 15 December 2025.

.. _AbilityNet: https://abilitynet.org.uk/
.. _2018 legislation: https://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2018/952/regulation/4
.. _Equality Advisory and Support Service: https://www.equalityadvisoryservice.com/
.. _Met Office: https://www.metoffice.gov.uk/
.. _sphinx.ext.autodoc:  https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/extensions/autodoc.html
.. _sphinx.ext.autosummary: https://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/extensions/autosummary.html
.. _UG-ANTS Documentation: https://metoffice.github.io/UG-ANTS/
.. _WAVE: https://wave.webaim.org/
.. _WCAG 2.2 1.4.3 Contrast: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/contrast-minimum.html
.. _WCAG 2.1 success criteria 2.4.4 Link Purpose: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/link-purpose-in-context.html
.. _WCAG 2.4.6 Headings and Labels: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/headings-and-labels.html
.. _WCAG 3.3.2 Labels or Instructions: https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Understanding/labels-or-instructions.html
.. _Web Content Accessibility Guidelines: https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG22/